---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/csci-1302/"}
---

🚨 this page is not fully complete! feel free to look around tho! 🚨

A big thank you to our [class repo](https://github.com/cs1302uga)! This whole page is based on all the notes from preparing for and attending lecture. If you're Professor Barnes, a big thank you for reminding me that this field takes a lot of patience, time, and most importantly, practice! 

```java
	mooooo
        \  
{ #__}
^
         \  (oo)\_______
            (__)\       )\/\
                ||----w |
                ||     ||
```



# Welcome to the real world
## ~~super hacking~~ command line interfaces
Now that code doesn't scare you (don't worry, even the best developers get nightmares some weird rusty crab chasing them down), lets's take a look at command line interfaces through a *terminal emulator*. Rather than opening your files (finder for all you apple people) with a graphical interface (GUI), we're going to use a text-based system: the command line interface (CLI). This allows you to more directly communicate with you computer (specifically the [[Software#OS\|Operating System]]) for applications without a GUI (such as connecting to server) and is usually much faster. How can I talk to this fancy computer (that speaks only binary)!?! 

> **Shell**: a way (another program) to take in keyboard commands and tell the OS what to do




We're going to directly communicate with computers using a [[🌎 Unix\|🌎 Unix]] environment. 
- Know common commands so that you're able to code fast 
- Edit text? We're going to use [[⌨️ Emacs\|⌨️ Emacs]] , but VIM is another lightweight option 

To compile java files: `$ javac -d bin src/Myfile.java`
To run java files type : `$ java -cp bin FQN 
- As Long as you have name (FQN!) and the class path, you can run file from any location! 
- cp should always point to COMPLIED code
- Specific multiple paths like this: `-cp path1:path2`
## I have a fear of errors
^^ is that you? You see that giant blob of white message (that is like gibberish!) and now you're ready to toss your computer out the window (maybe even get on a plane and never come back). 
Well, it's not as bad as it seems. I know it's crazy but that blob was carefully written to tell you what went wrong. Once you understand [[Exception\|exceptions]], you'll realize they're actually rooting for you (yeah, go back and click on the page). 

## my computer "ate" my homework??
 [[🤖 git\|🤖 git]]

# Programing big big things 
You need lots of architecture when writing massive programs (think about writing all the code for google or amazon). Going back to the basis of a few file tho, let's start one level up from classes and build on. 
## no more mess
On your laptop or your preferred online cloud storage system, you don't just dumb all your files in one place (if you do, come back when you don't). You add folders to structure to organize everything, even if it means nested folder. Likewise, we can use [[OOP#Packages\|Packages]] to add that structure to our code. Some quick reminders:
- If you're creating your own projects, declare package statements! 
- Typically import packages at the start of the file with the FQN 
## legally bound
We all see the terms and contracts page... and skip, skip, sign here, and done. One day, you wake up and realize you've consented to this, this thing, your whole live depends on and revolved around. Code (sometimes) does this too -- enter the [[Interfaces\|interface]]. 
## child support  
[[Inheritance\|Inheritance]]

## "paperwork" never dies
One last thing are [[API\|API]]s! A big word for simply saying that there's a certain structure to document your code in terms of what overall methods and classes do in context of the bigger picture. Or if you're lost on how to use code that you imported, you can refer to the API to see how to use it properly. 


# hi 

5. Remember [[UML Class Diagrams\|UML Class Diagrams]]?
	- This time, we're diving into more features with all the new java bling
6. Instead of always inputing commands, we're now going to use [[Interpreter Scripts\|Interpreter Scripts]]
7. Simplify your arguments with [[Varargs\|Varargs]]! 
8. Oml, Finally understanding

10. It's important to understand the various [[OOP#Visibility Modifiers for Methods\|Visibility modifiers]]
11. [[ADTs\|ADTs]] are your world to algorithm and data structures!
12. [[💡Generics\|💡Generics]]
13. [[🧵 Threads\|🧵 Threads]] help run programs! 
14. [[Maven\|Maven]] 
15. [[♾️ Big-O\|♾️ Big-O]]
16. [[Algorithm Analysis\|Algorithm Analysis]]


